no way to prevent this, et al.
Two days ago, the United States marked its six-hundred and fifth mass shooting this year in a parking lot outside a billiards hall on Beckley Avenue, in my hometown of Dallas, Texas. The constant flood of news – eight a.m., nine a.m., five p.m., breaking – of the newest mass violence, most threatening climatic event, international political happenstance reduces any individual segment to a drop in a flood. Though, we all remember our first shooting. Columbine; Sandy Hook, Aurora; Virginia Tech; Orlando; Las Vegas; at least one of these are ironed into the average American’s memory. That any of these locations evoke an emotion beyond remembrance of a place is a travesty. 
Many people smarter than I opine various policies to reduce gun violence, others on radicalization. Most cut to the core of some universal rot through American society. Nothing is monocausal. All these facts can be taken in concert with each other. And it’s still not enough. When Bill Clinton passed the Federal Assault Weapons Ban, it was foreseen that this would quell mass shootings. Nothing changed. Columbine happened. The ban expired. We all know what state Sandy Hook belongs to. Nothing changed.
You’ve probably heard this joke: a man walks into a gay nightclub in Colorado Springs. And for those who don’t treat it as such, and are rightfully hurt at the prior sentence – what else could it be? When the deaths of five and life-changing injuries of twenty-five more are treated as a trivial facet of the news – the newest mass shooting to slide across the notification bar of a phone – it’s hard to see this as anything other than a joke. There are elements to this shooting that are uniquely horrifying. The specific targeting of an LGBT watering hole. There’s the increase in violent rhetoric against queer people – especially trans people – brought on by one side’s violent rhetoric. As well, the fence-sitting by various national newspapers on the topic does not help. Not to mention the dehumanization. At the end of the day, however, it’s just a pop-up in notifications to be swiped away.
When policies are proposed to minimize violence, they oftentimes minimize efforts contradictory to their claims. There are gun clubs that exist to defend against mass shootings; there are a growing number of LGBT people buying guns for self-defense. These groups rightfully act to defend their self-interest. I wish them the best. In the lack of effective government action – and that may simply not exist on this topic – the exercise of political autonomy is a must.
Regardless, we are confronted with that we are here at all. Left versus right; preventative versus reactive; lower-class versus upper-class; religious versus secular. At the end of the day, another forgettable notification appears. The grief of those close to the departed becomes dust. Words fail to become action. When government fails to act, someone must. 
